

As any young person when asked the unavoidable question, “What do you want to be when you grow up?”, I thought of jobs I had seen before and made an impression on me. My first ever declared career was to be a flight attendant. I had traveled a few times to China to visit my family there and so I longed to be on that plane to take me to a happy place again. Over the years it gradually changed to being a doctor, and then a biological engineer. Once I really thought about it, got some experience interning, volunteering, and working near those jobs, I found myself finding different aspects of the career that didn’t really jive with me. 

For a year, during my sophomore year of college, I was lost. Anchored down by an obligation to stay with the college due to a sizeable scholarship I received and not really feeling the degree I was currently pursuing, I had to make sure I really wanted to commit to something else to avoid making a choice I could potentially regret. Seeking professional insight and answers, I networked with numerable people from different backgrounds to find a career that would interest me. I knew financial stability was important to me so I added on a BBA in Finance at the beginning of the year, but it wasn’t enough, I needed something that would make me indispensable. Knowing nothing else but the fact that it was important to me to be able to have the choice to be flexible to do anything I could ever want to do, whenever I want, wherever I want, and the slight interest to explore programming again, I was lucky to have met a mentor that was willing to put their trust in me and encouraged me to try giving computer science a try. To make me see his vision, he brought me all the way to San Francisco, where he was now living, and hooked me up with a tech startup to open my eyes to this world. 

The tech startup culture in Silicon Valley is definitely harsh, and I learned really quick that I wouldn’t be able to sustainably work in such a fast-paced and thick-skinned environment forever, but I got to see software engineering happening right on the other side of me. I saw how flexible computer science was and how crucial it is to these companies. There is a whole world out there and such a demand for people with programming skills. Although being a front-end or back-end software engineer may not be my thing, I definitely felt like I was going in the right direction. Coming back for classes the next semester, taking both Finance and Computer Science courses, ironically and fortunately taking an investments class during that time, I realized that both of my goals of being financially stable, working closely with money, and being indispensable could actualize itself in the form of working in the financial sector as a data scientist or quantitative analyst. My first project I’d like to tackle with this new interest and career pathway is developing good models to give me predictions about the direction of the stock using historical data and then running these in real time to see how successful it is. Then I plan to develop a program to generate leads in the stock market that have the potential to make a big profit. With these experiences, I hope to either be able to consistently win and be able to continue working for myself or use these to contribute to a larger company that can further develop these skills so I can work for myself at the end of the day. Hopefully this will all workout, and if not, I have my computer science and finance skills with me to find another path.
